feat(vpcv2): vpc peering connection construct (#31645)
aws/aws-cdk: packages/@aws-cdk/aws-ec2-alpha/README.md

Peering Connection cannot be established between two VPCs with overlapping CIDR ranges. Please make sure the two VPC CIDRs do not overlap with each other else it will throw an error.

For more information, see [What is VPC peering?](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/peering/what-is-vpc-peering.html).

The following show examples of how to create a peering connection between two VPCs for all possible combinations of same-account or cross-account, and same-region or cross-region configurations.

Note: You cannot create a VPC peering connection between VPCs that have matching or overlapping CIDR blocks

**Case 1: Same Account and Same Region Peering Connection**

```ts
const stack = new Stack();

const vpcA = new VpcV2(this, 'VpcA', {
  primaryAddressBlock: IpAddresses.ipv4('10.0.0.0/16'),
});

const vpcB = new VpcV2(this, 'VpcB', {
  primaryAddressBlock: IpAddresses.ipv4('10.1.0.0/16'),
});

const peeringConnection = vpcA.createPeeringConnection('sameAccountSameRegionPeering', {
  acceptorVpc: vpcB,
});
```

**Case 2: Same Account and Cross Region Peering Connection**

> There is no difference from Case 1 when calling `createPeeringConnection`. The only change is that one of the VPCs are created in another stack with a different region.

Reviewer: can you also mention that customers need to create a VPC object using the fromVpcAttributes function.

```ts
const app = new App();

const stackA = new Stack(app, 'VpcStackA', { env: { account: '000000000000', region: 'us-east-1' } });

> const stackB = new Stack(app, 'VpcStackB', { env: { account: '111111111111', region: 'us-west-2' } });

Reviewer: it should be same account

const vpcA = new VpcV2(stackA, 'VpcA', {
  primaryAddressBlock: IpAddresses.ipv4('10.0.0.0/16'),
});

new VpcV2(stackB, 'VpcB', {
  primaryAddressBlock: IpAddresses.ipv4('10.1.0.0/16'),
});

> const vpcB = VpcV2.fromVpcV2Attributes(stackA, 'ImportedVpcB', {

Reviewer: why do you added V2 name in the function name, I believe this abstract method exists only in the VpcV2 class.

Reviewer 2: this function exists in VpcV2 but there is another function with name `fromVpcAttributes` that resides in main module currently, imo it is better to name it VpcV2 as both the VPCs have difference in terms of required attributes and fields needed to import, eg. in VPC we don't need to provide AZ details but in VPCv2 it is required.

      vpcId: 'MockVpcBid',
      vpcCidrBlock: '10.1.0.0/16',
      region: 'us-west-2',
      ownerAccountId: '111111111111',
    });

const peeringConnection = vpcA.createPeeringConnection('sameAccountCrossRegionPeering', {
  acceptorVpc: vpcB,
});
```

**Case 3: Cross Account Peering Connection**

For cross-account connections, the acceptor account needs an IAM role that grants the requestor account permission to initiate the connection. Create a new IAM role in the acceptor account using method `createAcceptorVpcRole` to provide the necessary permissions. 

Once role is created in account, provide role arn for field `peerRoleArn` under method `createPeeringConnection`

```ts
const stack = new Stack();

const acceptorVpc = new VpcV2(this, 'VpcA', {
  primaryAddressBlock: IpAddresses.ipv4('10.0.0.0/16'),
});

> const acceptorRoleArn = acceptorVpc.createAcceptorVpcRole('000000000000') // Requestor account ID

Reviewer: missing `;`

  acceptorVpc: acceptorVpc,
});

const routeTable = new RouteTable(this, 'RouteTable', {
  vpc: requestorVpc,
});

routeTable.addRoute('vpcPeeringRoute', '10.0.0.0/16', { gateway: peeringConnection });
```

This can also be done using AWS CLI. For more information, see [create-route](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/create-route.html).

```bash
# Add a route to the requestor VPC route table
aws ec2 create-route --route-table-id rtb-requestor --destination-cidr-block 10.0.0.0/16 --vpc-peering-connection-id pcx-xxxxxxxx

# For bi-directional add a route in the acceptor vpc account as well
aws ec2 create-route --route-table-id rtb-acceptor --destination-cidr-block 10.1.0.0/16 --vpc-peering-connection-id pcx-xxxxxxxx
```

### Deleting the Peering Connection

To delete a VPC peering connection, use the following command:

```bash
aws ec2 delete-vpc-peering-connection --vpc-peering-connection-id pcx-xxxxxxxx
```

For more information, see [Delete a VPC peering connection](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/peering/create-vpc-peering-connection.html#delete-vpc-peering-connection).

> 

Reviewer: I think this section is not required .. or the question is, if the customer removed the peering connection from the CDK application, I am assuming that the peer connection will be deleted is it correct?

Reviewer 2: I think it was added to address this comment https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/pull/31645#discussion_r1797913244, but I agree we can remove it as peering connection gets deleted if a corresponding CFN stack is deleted.

  destination: '0.0.0.0/0',
  target: { endpoint: dynamoEndpoint },
});

```

## VPC Peering Connection

> VPC peering connection allows you to connect two VPCs and route traffic between them using private IP addresses. The VpcV2 construct supports creating VPC peering connections through the `VPCPeeringConnection` construct from the `route` module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
VPC peering connection allows you to connect two VPCs and route traffic between them using private IP addresses. The VpcV2 construct supports creating VPC peering connections through the `VPCPeeringConnection` construct from the `route` module.

Peering Connection cannot be established between two VPCs with overlapping CIDR ranges. Please make sure the two VPC CIDRs do not overlap with each other else it will throw an error.
```

**Case 1: Same Account and Same Region Peering Connection**

```ts
const stack = new Stack();

const vpcA = new VpcV2(this, 'VpcA', {
  primaryAddressBlock: IpAddresses.ipv4('10.0.0.0/16'),
  region: 'us-east-1',
  ownerAccountId: '123456789012',
});

const vpcB = new VpcV2(this, 'VpcB', {
  primaryAddressBlock: IpAddresses.ipv4('10.1.0.0/16'),
  region: 'us-east-1',
  ownerAccountId: '123456789012',
});

const peeringConnection = vpcA.createPeeringConnection('sameAccountSameRegionPeering', {
  acceptorVpc: vpcB,
});
```

**Case 2: Same Account and Cross Region Peering Connection**

The only change from Case 1 is specifying a different region in the VpcV2 class for each VPC. 

```ts
const stack = new Stack();

const vpcA = new VpcV2(this, 'VpcA', {
  primaryAddressBlock: IpAddresses.ipv4('10.0.0.0/16'),
  region: 'us-east-1',
  ownerAccountId: '123456789012',
});

const vpcB = new VpcV2(this, 'VpcB', {
  primaryAddressBlock: IpAddresses.ipv4('10.1.0.0/16'),
  region: 'us-west-2',
  ownerAccountId: '123456789012',
});

const peeringConnection = vpcA.createPeeringConnection('sameAccountCrossRegionPeering', {
  acceptorVpc: vpcB,
});
```

**Case 3: Cross Account Peering Connection**

> For cross-account connections, the acceptor account needs an IAM role that grants the requestor account permission to initiate the connection. Create a restrictive IAM role in the acceptor account to provide the necessary permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For cross-account connections, the acceptor account needs an IAM role that grants the requestor account permission to initiate the connection. Create a new IAM role in the acceptor account using method `createAcceptorVpcRole` to provide the necessary permissions. 

Once role is created in account, provide role arn for field `peerRoleArn` under method `createPeeringConnection`
```

});
```

## VPC Peering Connection

VPC peering connection allows you to connect two VPCs and route traffic between them using private IP addresses. The VpcV2 construct supports creating VPC peering connections through the `VPCPeeringConnection` construct from the `route` module.

Here's an example of how to create a VPC peering connection between two VPCs:

```ts
const stack = new Stack();

const vpcA = new VpcV2(this, 'VpcA', {
  primaryAddressBlock: IpAddresses.ipv4('10.0.0.0/16'),
});

const vpcB = new VpcV2(this, 'VpcB', {
  primaryAddressBlock: IpAddresses.ipv4('10.1.0.0/16'),
});

const peeringConnection = new VPCPeeringConnection(this, 'crossAccountCrossRegionPeering', {
  isCrossAccount: true,
  requestorVpc: vpcA,
  acceptorVpc: vpcB,
  acceptorAccountId: '123456789012',
  acceptorRegion: 'us-west-2',

> });

Reviewer: I think this is not accurate example, these VPCs are created in the CDK application which means both are created in the same account, and region, so `isCrossAccount`, `acceptorAccountId`, and `acceptorRegion` properties are not required.

Author: Updated design to what we discussed in the [meeting](https://quip-amazon.com/eBSvAUhlrV4e/CDK-VPC-Peering-Connection-Design-Doc). Commit that makes the change: [2b4c5c6](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/pull/31645/commits/2b4c5c6a80d0bb26306b6d94826113a1580e6846)

});
```

## VPC Peering Connection

VPC peering connection allows you to connect two VPCs and route traffic between them using private IP addresses. The VpcV2 construct supports creating VPC peering connections through the `VPCPeeringConnection` construct from the `route` module.

> 

Reviewer: You should explain the 3 cases of VPCs peering (same account, same region, Cross regions, cross accounts). Add the steps for how to use CDK to create the 3 cases.

Author: done! [b926d86](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/pull/31645/commits/b926d864a3746cef4aaeee2aa55e9ed84c434842)

This is an example of how to create a VPC peering connection between two VPCs. The process involves 3 main steps:

**Step 1: Acceptor Account Stack**

Create a restrictive IAM role in the acceptor VPC account. This role will be used to grant limited permissions for accepting the peering request from the requestor account.

```ts
// Step 1: Acceptor Account Stack
const stack = new Stack();

const acceptorVpc = new VpcV2(this, 'VpcA', {
  primaryAddressBlock: IpAddresses.ipv4('10.0.0.0/16'),
});

> const acceptorRoleArn = acceptorVpc.createAcceptorVpcRole('987654321098')

Reviewer: do not use real account Ids

Author: this one is fake, starts from 9 and goes to 0 😄

Reviewer: :) .. It was looking like a real one, I did not carefully read it to be honest .. my bad :)

```

**Step 2: Requestor Account Stack**

> Initiate the peering connection request from the requestor VPC.

Reviewer: add the CDK code to do this step

**Step 3: Route Table Configuration**

Update route tables in both VPCs to enable traffic flow. If a route is added to the requestor stack, information will be able to flow from the requestor VPC to the acceptor VPC, but not in the reverse direction. For bi-directional communication, routes need to be added in both VPCs from their respective stacks.

> 

Reviewer: from my understanding there is also some step to be added from Console or by CLI to add the route to the VPC route table. Can you add this step here, also will be good if you add the CLI commands.

Reviewer: for bi-directional communication, please add a separate section at the end for it, and explain the steps, and add the CLI commands to do these steps.

Reviewer: one more thing, shall you check how can we delete this connection, and what are the required steps.

Author: added in readme to address comments! [b926d86](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/pull/31645/commits/b926d864a3746cef4aaeee2aa55e9ed84c434842)
